http://bahiker.com/southbayhikes/rancho.html

In brief:
5.5 mile loop past Deer Hollow Farm and through grassland and chaparral.

Distance, category, and difficulty:
This 5.5 mile loop hike is easy, with about 800 feet in elevation change. Trailhead elevation is around 350 feet. The hike is flat for about 1 mile, climbs on a moderate grade to about 1045 feet, descends to about 330 feet, and returns to the trailhead on a level grade. This is a good hike for beginners starting to stretch their legs a bit; experienced hikers will probably find it easy. There are opportunities at Rancho for longer, harder hikes.

Exposure:
Some shade but mostly exposed.

Trail traffic:
Moderate-heavy. 

Trail surfaces:
Dirt trails and fire roads.

Hiking time:
3 hours.

Season:
Nice any time.

From Interstate 280 in Santa Clara County, exit #13 Foothill Expressway. Drive south on Foothill Boulevard and take the first right on Cristo Rey Drive. Drive about 1 mile and turn left into the park.

Get driving or public transit directions from Transit and Trails:
http://www.transitandtrails.org/trailheads/349 

GPS Coordinates* for Trailhead:
Latitude 37?19'58.38"N
Longitude 122? 5'16.24"W
(* based on Google Earth data, shown as degrees, minutes, seconds) 

Gas, food, and lodging:
Gas, stores, and restaurants on Foothill Boulevard, just north of 280. No camping.

Trailhead details:
Once in the park, bear right and drive to the last parking lot, at the end of the park road. Lots of parking, but the lots fill up quickly at this popular park. No entrance or parking fees. Maps available at a kiosk inside the park. Pay phone, drinking water, and restrooms in parking area (and pit toilets at Deer Hollow Farm). There are designated handicapped parking spots, and trails are wheelchair accessible. There is no direct public transportation to the park.

Rules:
Most trails are designated hiking and equestrian only. A few are open to hikers and cyclists only. There are a handful of hiking only trails. Dogs are not permitted.

The Official Story: 
MROSD's Rancho San Antonio page
MROSD's Deer Hollow Farm page 

Map Choices:
 This hike is described and mapped in 60 Hikes within 60 Miles: San Francisco, by Jane Huber (yup, that's me, the creator of this website). Order this book from Amazon.com.
• Map from MROSD (download Rancho San Antonio pdf).
• Peninsula Tales and Trails, by David Weintraub (order this book from Amazon.com) has an overview of the preserve, descriptions of hikes, and simple maps. 
• Afoot and Afield: San Francisco Bay Area, by David Weintraub (order this book from Amazon.com) has a great map and descriptions of a Rancho hike. 
• Peninsula Trails, by Jean Rusmore, has a simple map and trail descriptions (order this book from Amazon.com).
• The Santa Cruz Mountains Trail Book, by Tom Taber, has a simple map and preserve descriptions (order this book from Amazon.com). 
• The Trail Center's Trail Map of the Southern Peninsula covers Rancho San Antonio. 
